#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured
How to configure, build and install gemanx

= Introduction =

It is easy to build gemanx.

You may use a released version, or use the SVN version.

= Details =

*If you are using the SVN version:*

First do SVN checkout:

_svn checkout http://gemanx.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ gemanx_

And then run autogen.sh inside it

_cd gemanx_

_./autogen.sh_

To run autogen.sh, you need several tools:

automake
autoconf
libtool
...

Then the configure would be generated.

*If you are using the released version:*

Download the latest version from the "Downloads" tab, and then extract it into a folder:

_tar -xvf gemanx-gtk2-`*`.tar.gz_

_cd gemanx-gtk2-`<`VERSION`>`_

And run configure.

*Configure the project*

To run configure:

_./configure_

There are many options. By default, many of them are disabled. You may enable them:

_./configure --enable-libnotify --enable-wget --enable-iplookup --enable-imageview --enable-proxy_

If you are a Linux user, you may add *--prefix=/usr*, if you want gemanx to be installed in /usr and not /usr/local.

Detailed configure options list:
  *  --disable-nls
           do not use Native Language Support, so you do not have translations, etc...
  *  --enable-debug
          enable Debug (default: no)
  *  --disable-docklet
       disable docklet / system tray support, enabled by default
  *  --disable-notifier
      disable popup notifier support, if you have libnotify you may disable this, enabled by default
  *  *--enable-libnotify*
      enable popup notifier support by libnotify. Notifications look much better in some systems with this option. *If you enable this, you need to install libnotify.*
  *  --disable-nancy
         disable nancy bot support, enabled by default
  *  --disable-mouse
         disable mouse click and wheel support, enabled by default
  *  --disable-external
      disable external SSH/Telnet support, enabled by default
  *  --enable-wget
           enable wget support, so we use wget to download images for viewing. *You need to install wget.*
  *  *--enable-iplookup*
       enable IP location lookup. For Simplified Chinese users. Need qqwry.dat. *Please see the IPLOOKUP section for details.*
  *  *--enable-imageview*
      enable external image viewer. *Please see IMAGEVIEW section for details.*
  *  --enable-proxy
          enable proxy support, disabled by default.

* Build the project *

After configuring the project, you may build the project.
Just run

_make_

in the project folder. If your make is not GNU make, you may run

_gmake_

* Install the program *

Just run

_make install_

And if you are not root, you may run

_sudo make install_

The program will be installed. Enjoy BBSing with gemanx!

* IPLOOKUP *

If you enable this feature, you can see the location of the poster when you move your mouse pointer over the IP address.

You need to download *qqwry.dat* and put it into *~/.gemanx*

For how to download it, just search "qqwry.dat download" with Google.

* IMAGEVIEW *

If you enable this feature, your external image viewer will be called after you clicking on an image link.

We will fetch the link first with libcurl, and use libmagic to test if it is an image file. If it is, we run the external image viewer specified in "Preference" to view the image.

So you need to install *libmagic* or *file-devel* for this feature to work. You also need to install *libcurl* or *curl-devel* for this feature to work.